---
layout: post
title:  Economy Games
date:   2019-04-04 22:31
categories: Ideas
---
I have been spending a lot of time thinking about economy games since I wrote [External Data Import]({% post_url 2019-04-04-external-data-import %}). Here's an idea: stock market trading minigame.

On the whole, stocks don't change much from day to day. Coca-Cola has a difference of 2 points for the entire last 30 days, and it didn't do that in a single day, so let's call it fractions of a point or 1% per day. I could absolutely use a site like Alpha Vantage and sign up for their free API and download stock prices. [MSFT Stock Price](https://www.alphavantage.co/query?apikey=demo&function=TIME_SERIES_DAILY_ADJUSTED&symbol=MSFT) has way more data than I think I would need unless I was just padding screens to make it look good. Generally, the volume would mean nothing. Characters would invest some amount of funds and they would have the delta of open and close values applied to the funds invested in that particular stock.

For example, Alice invests $1000 in AJAX, which is just Microsoft in disguise. They open at 120 and close at 119.5. 119.5 over 120 is 0.9958333333. So, $1000 times 0.9958333333 is $995.83. Alice lost a little. Oops.

I could stop it right here and it would be a fun, random little minigame. Sometimes you win, sometimes you lose, so just use your disposable income. Let's say I want to make it a core part of the game. Perhaps we are running an espionage game where characters make money by stealing corporate secrets and by receiving payouts to do certain kinds of jobs. In that case, maybe I don't want yesterday's stock price. I want stock prices from seven days ago, which Alpha Vantage or something like it can easily provide me. Corporate intel becomes a sort of currency to buy stock tips. Trade in one, and you get to know what the stocks will close at tomorrow, which is six days ago in the stock data. Now the player has a way to reliably make some money because they can identify the winners and losers. Likewise, trade in two and you know what it closes at in two days, which is five day old stock data. A total of three corporate intels nets you tomorrow's price and the day after tomorrow's price. 

Obviously there needs to be a money sink somewhere, but the point is that it goes from pure randomness to a way that players can incrementally make money by playing the stock market. What really grabs my attention about this is that you can insert in game corporations that aren't tied to a real world stock.

Let's say a group of players are hired to break in to Corporation X's offices and gather some intel on their latest project. The players do, and they uncover some data that shows they are way behind on a project and are hemmoraging money. They take this corporate intel back and give it to their client for some cash. This is a great time to consider selling your Corporation X stock, because there's a good chance your client is going to use it to put the hurt on Corporation X.

It would probably be a pain (or at least beyond the scope of mushcode) to modify this in the shell, but there's no reason the code that displays stock data can't be amended with our fake corporations that exist only in game. Let's say that CORPX stock is 110 and on any given day it gains or loses between 0.5% and 1% of its value. This should make it look like just about any other company in the market, but it gives us the ability to take the character action and go in and modify it so that CORPX's stock is now 85 and varies by 1% to 3% each day. Clearly Corporation X is having a bad time, and the character got out just in time. The same should be true in reverse. In fact, this actually happens in GTA V. There are a class of missions you can do to attack various corporations and you are encouraged to dump their stock and buy their competitors so you can make money off of it.

Something like this shouldn't be the main game, of course, but it lets players who are online less frequently continue to play the game and build funds which are used for in game things. This is super important if you are paying bribes or real estate prices (yes, this whole thing could easily work for a game with limited real estate, too.)

On the other hand, there is no reason why a game of arbitrage like Drugwars couldn't be a viable minigame. The point of the game ([example here](https://gamegraveyard.net/drugwars/game/)) is to buy low, sell high, get yourself out of debt, and then make as much money as you can within one month. This is obviously so much easier to do if you aren't tracking fifty players doing the same thing, because the prices for each commodity at each location are randomly set within a range and they change from day to day. I don't really want to track the volume of baubles people are buying and selling, but maybe it is worth it to do so. I'm not entirely sure how to manage that without some SQL stuff I am not comfortable doing. Going back to our espionage game, it might be better to have six banks you buy and sell debt to. How dark (and weirdly real) is that?

Bank of Liberty might sell student loan debt for cheap and Eagle Investment Group might buy it for a lot of money. You can take a certain number of actions per day, and at the end of every month, you cash out and either gain some money or lose it. Now, the game introduces some risk by having the cops come down on you if your volume gets too high, and you always start in debt so you have a motivation to at least break even. Investing in the minigame requires some small amount of activity every day or you could lose out on money. Some people will like this, some people will not. Playing should be optional, so the winnings should be rewarding but on the scale of participating in some other sort of activity .

The rules of Drugwars are well understood, and it is a fairly balanced game. Things get a little crazy when you do it multiplayer, so I think it really is best looked at as a method of solo play.

I don't think I'll get to either of these any time soon, but how cool would it be to find different kinds of relics and baubles when exploring a dungeon in Pathfinder and engage in an enconomy game to get the best return on them?